New tutorial in the learning section (#1012)
Consensys/doc.linea: docs/learn/aiagent-quickstart.mdx

### Setting Up the `.env` File

Copy the `.env.example` file in a `.env` file in the root directory and configure it as follows:

```
# Blockchain Connection
EVM_RPC_URL=https://rpc.linea.build
EVM_PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key_here
```

Replace `your_private_key_here` with your Ethereum **development** private key. Be sure to keep this key private and do not reuse it to store funds.

We’ll also need a modelProvider (unless you feel confortable running a local model on your computer, it can be quite slow depending on your computer performance), you can add your api key in the .env file, depending which provider you’ll use (OpenAI, Anthropic, Gaia, …). Some also provide you options, you can choose which model you would like to use for each type of actions. 

### Installing the EVM Plugin

We’ll use the [EVM Plugin](https://github.com/elizaOS/eliza/tree/main/packages/plugin-evm) to interact with the Linea blockchain.

If you used the main repository, it should already be installed, otherwise, you need to install it:

```bash
pnpm add @elizaos/plugin-evm
```

Then, configure the plugin in your character settings.

> ElizaOS is using some “characters” files, that define your agent personnality. You can create one, or choose a preconfigured one in the characters folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ElizaOS uses some “characters” files that define your agent's personality. You can create one or choose a preconfigured one in the characters folder.
```

> On top, you’ll need to add this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On top, you’ll need to add this:
```

Is this intended to be: 

1. At the top of the file, add this 
2. In addition to the above, you'll need to add this

If 1, go with: "At the top of the file,[...]"

If 2: "In addition, [...]"

Author: Yeah you're right, it can be confusing, intended to be 1.

```json
{
	...,
	"modelProvider": "your_provider_name", //eg. openai
	"settings": {
		"chains": {
			"evm": [ "lineaSepolia" ]
		}
	},
	"plugins": ["@elizaos/plugin-evm"],
	...
}
```

> This will allow you to use all the actions in the evm plugin + you’re configuring your AI agent to use your provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will allow you to use all the actions in the EVM plugin and configure your AI agent to use your provider.
```

> ## 3. Let’s explore how it works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. How it works
```

> If you go check the plugin-evm folder, you’ll see differents types of files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you check the `/plugin-evm` folder, you’ll see different types of files:
```

### Actions files

They define actions that can be performed by the agent.

> *actions/transfer.ts*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*actions/transfer.ts*
```
can remove if you implement the below suggestion

> ```tsx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```tsx title="actions/transfer.ts"
```

            console.error("Error during token transfer:", error);
            if (callback) {
                callback({
                    text: `Error transferring tokens: ${error.message}`,
                    content: { error: error.message },
                });
            }
            return false;
        }
    },
    validate: async (runtime: IAgentRuntime) => {
        const privateKey = runtime.getSetting("EVM_PRIVATE_KEY");
        return typeof privateKey === "string" && privateKey.startsWith("0x");
    },
    examples: [
        [
            {
                user: "assistant",
                content: {
                    text: "I'll help you transfer 1 ETH to 0x9FA746b844747f77c6C54F4f88ab71048c608864",
                    action: "SEND_TOKENS",
                },
            },
            {
                user: "user",
                content: {
                    text: "Transfer 1 ETH to 0x9FA746b844747f77c6C54F4f88ab71048c608864",
                    action: "SEND_TOKENS",
                },
            },
        ],
    ],
    similes: ["SEND_TOKENS", "TOKEN_TRANSFER", "MOVE_TOKENS"],
};

```

### Contracts artifacts and sources

> If you want to allow your agent to deploy new contracts or interact with existing contracts, you can put them in this folder to be able to refer to the abi in your actions files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to allow your agent to deploy new contracts or interact with existing contracts, you can put them in this folder to be able to refer to the ABI in your actions files.
```

### Providers

> Contains wallet providers files, you can modify to use AA wallets or if you want to connect your agent with an MPC provider for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contains wallet providers files. You can modify these to use AA wallets, for example, or connect your agent with an MPC provider.
```

### Templates

> A really important section: Every time you send a prompt to the agent, it’ll try to determine if you’re trying to perform an action, then use the template for this action. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A very important section: every time you send a prompt to the agent, it’ll try to determine if you’re trying to perform an action, then use the template for this action. 
```

> Here with the transfer template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's the transfer template:
```

   - Amount: Attempt to convert the amount to a number to verify it's valid.
   - Address: Check that it starts with "0x" and count the number of characters (should be 42).
   - Token: Note whether it's a native transfer or if a specific token is mentioned.

3. If any information is missing or invalid, prepare an appropriate error message.

4. If all information is valid, summarize your findings.

5. Prepare the JSON structure based on your analysis.

After your analysis, provide the final output in a JSON markdown block. All fields except 'token' are required. The JSON should have this structure:

\`\`\`json
{
    "fromChain": string,
    "amount": string,
    "toAddress": string,
    "token": string | null
}
\`\`\`

Remember:
- The chain name must be a string and must exactly match one of the supported chains.
- The amount should be a string representing the number without any currency symbol.
- The recipient address must be a valid Ethereum address starting with "0x".
- If no specific token is mentioned (i.e., it's a native token transfer), set the "token" field to null.

Now, process the user's request and provide your response.
`;
```

---

> ## 4. Running the AI Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. Run the AI agent
```

Start the agent with:

```bash
pnpm build
pnpm start --character-"characters/yourcharactername.character.json"
```

You’ll also want to start the web interface, so you can chat with your agent:

```bash
pnpm start:client
```

> The interface is available by default on localhost:5173, if you want to interact with multiples agents, don’t forget to launch them on different ports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The interface is available by default on `localhost:5173`. If you want to interact with multiple agents, launch them on different ports.
```

And you’re good to go!

> You can ask your agent to send some ETH to another address, or to bridge a token from one chain to another (for that you’ll need to add more chains in your configuration). By default, the agent will need the exact name of the chain, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can ask your agent to send some ETH to another address or bridge a token from one chain to another (though for that, you’ll need to add more chains in your configuration). By default, the agent will need the exact name of the chain, e.g.:
```

```bash
Send 1 ETH to 0x9FA746b844747f77c6C54F4f88ab71048c608864 on lineaSepolia
```

You can modify this by changing the templates in the EVM plugin.

---

In this introductory tutorial, you learned how to use ElizaOS to create an AI agent that is able to send transactions on Linea and interact with contracts.

> There’s much much more you can do with ElizaOS, the framework is evolving very fast be sure to have plenty of time if you plan to explore it further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There’s much much more you can do with ElizaOS. The framework is evolving very fast, so be ready to devote plenty of time if you plan to explore it further.
```
